<!-- image -->

<!-- image -->

Available online at www.sciencedirect.com

## ScienceDirect

[Lingua 273 (2022) 103327](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lingua.2022.103327)

Socioenvironmental affordances of an English-medium instruction international university specializing in English as a lingua franca communication: An exploratory study of L2 student voices

<!-- image -->

Arum Kim a , Seongyong Lee b, ⇑ , Hohsung Choe c

a Centre of Foreign Languages and Cultures, BNU-HKBU United International College, 2000 Jintong Road, Tangjiawan, Zhuhai, Guangdong Province 519087, PR China

b Department of English Education, Hannam University, 70 Hannam-ro, Daedeok-ku, Daejeon 34430, South Korea

Department of TESOL &amp; English Linguistics, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies, 81 Oedae-ro, Mohyeon-eup, Cheoin-gu, Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do 17035, South Korea

c

Received 17 November 2021; revised 24 March 2022; accepted in revised form 24 March 2022; Available online 6 April 2022

## Abstract

Previous studies show that international universities that adopt English-medium instruction (EMI) policies provide multilingual environments where students can engage in the use of English as a lingua franca (ELF). Drawing on affordance theory, this study is an exploration of how socioenvironmental factors of the EMI international university affect second language (L2) students ' use of ELF for intercultural communication. Interviews with 15 students on the offshore campus of a Hong Kong university in mainland China revealed an inventory of ELF-related affordances of the international university in four categories: 1) existing affordances (i.e., EMI, multilingual, and ELT-by-NEST affordances), 2) perceived affordances (i.e., English use and intercultural communication affordances), 3) affordance engagement and agency (i.e., ELF communication practices), and 4) affordance actualization (i.e., perceived development of ELF communication skills and confidence in ELF use). In comparison, native English speaker (NES) ideology -associated with the ELT-by-NEST affordance -may constrain ELF communication, particularly when students were obsessed with English as a native language. The findings indicate that L2 students ' agentive engagement in practicing ELF-related affordances of an EMI international university may have helped them develop pragmatic skills for ELF communication. Educational implications from the socioenvironmental perspective are suggested. Ó 2022 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

Keywords: English-medium instruction; International university; English as a lingua franca; Affordance theory

⇑ Corresponding author. E-mail addresses: arumkim@uic.edu.cn (A. Kim), seongyong@hnu.kr (S. Lee), choe@hufs.ac.kr (H. Choe).

## 1. INTRODUCTION

In response to the increasing communication demands in many areas, such as culture, business, and education, generated by globalization, most universities around the world offer international credentials by recruiting transnational faculty, staff, and students (De Costa et al., 2020; Jenkins, 2014; Lee and Kim, 2020). This process of academic internationalization has enriched the campuses of major universities with multicultural and multilingual environments (Baker and Hüttner, 2017). In such environments of language contact, English has attained the status of the primary available language in international universities and has led to the development of English-medium instruction (EMI) policies and practices (De Costa, 2012; Fang, 2018). To date, whether and to what extent EMI policies and practices in international universities can enhance L2 students ' English proficiency, content knowledge, and intercultural awareness has been at the heart of scholarly discussion (e.g., Baker, 2016; Macaro, 2018; Macaro et al., 2018).

The sociolinguistic orientation toward EMI policies and practices has foregrounded the issue regarding the nature of English as a global language and how it should be used in international universities, which are typically assumed to provide multilingual and multicultural environments (Macaro et al., 2018; Rose and Galloway, 2019). It is against this linguistic backdrop that current research on linguistic issues in EMI contexts underscores the role of English as a lingua franca (ELF) as a means of academic activities and communication among speakers from different linguistic and cultural language backgrounds (Baker and Hüttner, 2017; Fang, 2018; Jenkins, 2014). Canagarajah (2007) noted that the contextual factor of multilingualism in EMI international universities may prompt ELF speakers to activate ' a mutually recognized set of attitudes, forms, and conventions that ensure successful communication in ELF ' (p. 925). Therefore, previous studies have recognized a possible contribution of the multilingual environment to L2 speakers ' ELF use in the context of international English language teaching (ELT) (Baker and Hüttner, 2017; Canagarajah, 2007).

Transnational universities, defined by Zhou et al. (2021) as ' full-degree programme universities established in partnership between a local and foreign university ' (p. 2), are one type of EMI international university. Nine transnational higher education institutions in mainland China have contributed to the internationalization of HE and the implementation of EMI at the national level (De Costa et al., 2020). Despite some criticism that these universities have brought the integration of Western or Anglophone perspectives into China ' s higher education policies and practices, Yang (2014, p. 155) reported that ' the communicative and instrumental function of ELF ' on such multilingual campuses has facilitated Chinese faculty and students to engage in the international academic communities.

Given the contextual significance of transnational universities in China in relation to the pivotal role of ELF in multilingual settings, De Costa et al. (2020) called attention to the linguistic affordances and challenges supported by this emerging phenomenon in higher education from a socioenvironmental perspective. Furthermore, Baker and Hüttner (2017) underscored the contextual factor regarding the use of ELF as the primary means of intercultural communication in international universities. However, to date, there has been little discussion about the psychological effect of multilingual and EMI environments in international universities on non-native English speaking (NNES) students ' perceptions of ELF communication. In other words, although many studies have addressed both ' context ' and the ' user ' as important factors in ELF communications, few studies have explored whether the multilingual environment, which may serve as an important social background of this emerging context, has an influence on L2 students ' perceptions of ELF use. To fill this gap in the literature, drawing on affordance theory (Gibson, 1986; Kordt, 2018; Stoffregen, 2003; van Lier, 2004) and ELF communications in academic settings (Baker and Hüttner, 2017; Jenkins, 2014; Sung, 2020b), the present study is an investigation of the extent to which the ELF-related social environment of an EMI international university, specifically an offshore branch campus of a Hong Kong university in mainland China, may support Chinese students ' use of ELF for intercultural communications. The concept of socioenvironmental affordances may provide valuable insights for the multilingual environment and ELF users as dynamically entwined in a single affordance system for ELF communications rather than separate entities (Aronin and Singleton, 2012; Jiang and Zhang, 2019; Kordt, 2018; De Costa et al., 2020).

## 2. ELF COMMUNICATION IN EMI INTERNATIONAL UNIVERSITIES

The strategic use of English in EMI contexts is the hallmark of many international universities ' claims of promoting students ' academic success and for intercultural communication among faculty and students from different linguacultural backgrounds (Sung, 2020b). However, although EMI policies and practices are frequently mentioned as among the key strategies of higher education institutions to promote their international credentials (Zhang, 2018; Yang, 2014), the issue of ' what English ' has often been ignored in the traditional view of EMI education (Rose and Galloway, 2019, p. 194). Additionally, despite the salience of this linguistic orientation in international universities, whether or to what extent EMI practices inherently enhance L2 students ' English proficiency remains inconclusive (Macaro, 2018). This ambiguous situation is of relevance to the issue of ' the kind of English ' competence that should be targeted in the EMI practices of international universities (Macaro et al., 2018, p. 66). Scholars of sociolinguistics highlight an international orientation toward the use of English in the multilingual contexts of many EMI international universities, eschewing rigid conformity to a single variety of English (e.g., Baker and Hüttner, 2017; De Costa et al., 2020; Kuteeva, 2019). Against this contextual backdrop, it is argued that the ELF approach -as a means of international academic and intercultural communications -underscore the importance of awareness and acceptance of diverse English varieties (Jenkins, 2014, 2015; Rose and Galloway, 2019).

Therefore, EMI international universities have attracted much attention from scholars in applied linguistics, as they presumably provide multilingual contexts in which ELF communication prevails (Baker, 2016; Jenkins, 2014; Sung, 2018). However, although universities that serve international students and scholars usually feature multilingual environments (Yang, 2014; Jenkins, 2014), they do not necessarily provide EMI education, as not all designate English as the only means of academic activities and communications (Jenkins, 2014, 2015). For example, some universities in East Asia use the national language as the predominant medium of instruction and require international students to learn it. Meanwhile, English -due to its potential inefficiency for content education -is adopted only in Englishdesignated zones or some EMI courses (Baker and Hüttner, 2017; Fang, 2018). Therefore, an ideal setting for ELF communication research is an institution where the multilingual environment meets the EMI policy, namely, a multilingual university (Fang, 2018; Jenkins, 2015; Zhou et al., 2021).

The increasingly multilingual and multicultural orientation of international universities has led to the fluid and hybrid use of ELF for intercultural communications or ' ELF communications ' (Jenkins, 2014; Sung, 2018; 2020b). Thus, the multilingual higher education environment, where different languages are brought into contact, has been at the center of research on ELF communications (Baker, 2016; Jenkins, 2014, 2015; Sung, 2018). Baker and Hüttner (2017) argued that empirical evidence of the perceptions of key stakeholders in the field, especially faculty and students, supports a pluralistic perspective on English use in many EMI international universities. Specifically, they found that the usefulness of local varieties of English in intercultural communications was based on the criterion of intelligibility, which was recognized as the basis of meaningful interactions. De Costa (2012) reported that an Indonesian international student studying at a Singaporean secondary school strategically used her linguistic resources to pursue a sense of solidarity and belongingness in that speech community. As Galloway and Rose (2018) asserted, such studies have documented that ELF users construct their own linguistic norms: these are performatively flexible, fluid, and hybrid, in highly localized contexts, and are ' [moving] away from the native English benchmark, while in no way promoting a one-size-fits-all approach ' (p. 5).

Despite some criticisms from the conventional perspective on EMI education (e.g., Macaro, 2018; Macaro et al., 2018), such a pluralistic and fluid stance on English use for intercultural communications on a multilingual campus is relevant to the pedagogical integration of ELF into ELT and EMI (Reynolds and Yu, 2018; Rose and Galloway, 2019; Sung, 2020b; Zhou et al., 2021). In many publications on the use of ELF in academic settings, it has been reported that EMI international universities provide social environments in which the pursuit of intercultural communications and citizenship can potentially motivate L2 students to develop ELF proficiency (Baker and Fang, 2021; Sung, 2013). These social environments can promote both awareness and acceptance of different varieties of English (Baker and Hüttner, 2017; Galloway and Rose, 2018; Reynolds and Yu, 2018), successful identity negotiation (Sung, 2020a), and pragmatic skills in ELF (Canagarajah, 2007; Jenkins, 2014; Sung, 2018). In questioning the traditional view of L2 motivation that promotes integration into Anglophone cultures, Sung (2013) suggested that L2 university students desire international communication skills to be global citizens as a result of their academic experiences in international contexts. Part of this motivation is associated with the changing role of English in shaping L2 speaker identities in increasingly interconnected communities around the world (Baker and Fang, 2021; Sung, 2020a). Thus, individual variations may lead to increased awareness and acceptance of different English varieties in intercultural communications (Baker and Hüttner, 2017; Rose and Galloway, 2019). Accordingly, current research on ELF holds that the goals of ELT in multilingual universities should be to increase students ' motivation to construct an ideal L2 self in ELF to help them acknowledge English variations and thereby to encourage them to identify as ' expert ELF users ' in today ' s increasingly global and multilingual situations in higher education (Rose and Galloway, 2019, p. 71). Some empirical studies confirm that L2 students in international universities can be trained to develop pragmatic strategies while engaging in communication with those from different first language backgrounds (e.g., Galloway and Rose, 2018; Sung, 2018, 2020b). However, there has yet to be a thorough investigation of the diverse ways in which those multilingual EMI environments may influence students ' ELF use in the context of a transnational university (De Costa et al., 2020; Lee and Kim, 2020; Zhang, 2018).

## 3. ECOLOGICAL APPROACH TO ELF IN ACADEMIC CONTEXTS

The theory of affordances may provide a theoretical framework regarding the socioenvironmental effects that international universities have on L2 students ' ELF use and agentive engagement in intercultural communications (De Costa et al., 2020). According to Gibson (1986), the notion of affordance connects an environment with an actor in a single interaction system. Thus, affordances, as properties of the environment-human interaction system, provide opportunities for potential action (Stoffregen, 2003). While affordances can come from social (e.g., social relations) as well as physical (e.g., classroom organization) environments, in L2 studies, the notion of affordance focuses on interactionbased opportunities within L2 learning environments (Henry, 2016; Jiang and Zhang, 2019; Kordt, 2018, van Lier, 2004).

Research supports that among all potential affordances that may exist in an environment, only perceived affordances can be actualized in the human-environment interaction system (Kordt, 2018; Stoffregen, 2003). Affordance perception is therefore a significant factor in the conversion of the potential affordances that exist in the environment into subjective affordances that are available to agents (Aronin and Singleton, 2012; Kordt, 2018). An agent ' s volition and agency are then required to convert the perceived affordances into actual actions or events (Stoffregen, 2003). In this way, human agency, as an agent ' s capacity to control one ' s perceptions and actions based on intentionality and self-regulation, is an essential psychological drive in the transformation of affordances into actions (Bandura, 2001; Stoffregen, 2003).

In L2 learning, depending on a learning ' s capacity for self-regulation, learner agency can be exerted as a mediating mechanism for the transition between language learning opportunities in the environment and actual learning (Jiang and Zhang, 2019; van Lier, 2004, 2008). In contrast, features in the environment that are perceived as constraints may prevent L2 students from acting upon such learning opportunities (Bower and Sturman, 2015; Henry, 2016; van Lier, 2004). In sum, the human-environment interaction system posited by affordance theory may serve as the theoretical framework in investigations of how an L2 learner can execute a specific learning action by utilizing social opportunities that are available in a given environment (Aronin and Singleton, 2012; Kordt, 2018; van Lier, 2004). Such a decision-making process is well described in the Environment-Perception-Behavior model seen in Fig. 1 below (Bernhard et al., 2013; Suh et al., 2017). In this study, this behavioral framework serves as the basic research model.

Van Lier (2004) suggested the ecological perspective to explain linguistic environments as language learning opportunities that language learners perceive and utilize. When language learning environments ' invite and enable the learner[s] to be active in it, ' learners can use their learner agency to decide whether to accept or reject this invitation. Henry (2016) explored the affordances of English for social interaction and acquisition in Swedish and found that L2 students ' agency was the operational mechanism in perceiving and actualizing affordances. Aronin and Singleton (2012) studied the sociohistorical aspects of environmental affordances in multilingual contexts for the social acquisition of multiple languages. They proposed the concept of ' social language affordances, ' by which social environments provide the time -space specific affordances for learning a specific language ( ' happening affordances ' ) that may be realized by an individual who perceives and responds to those affordances ( ' goal affordances ' ) (p. 312). Kordt (2018) discussed the social affordances of the institutional environment for multilingual education, arguing that language teachers should create language learning environments that offer multilingual affordances and encourage students to perceive and utilize them for language acquisition. According to Jiang and Zhang (2019), L2 students ' motivation and agency in language learning make it possible for those opportunities to be realized as learning, emphasizing the significance of learners ' autonomous engagement in language learning activities based on the ' output affordances ' of student-centered learning activities in EMI courses (p. 333).

However, previous research on ELF communication has not fully explored how multilingual and EMI environments in international universities may support L2 students ' use of ELF for intercultural communication. Accordingly, De Costa et al. (2020) called for a thorough investigation of the environmental affordances and challenges in the emerging contexts of translational universities. Against the current linguistic backdrop of EMI education, this study is an exploration of the ELF-related affordances of an offshore branch campus of a Hong Kong university in mainland China. The following research questions guided the study.

Fig. 1. Basic research model of affordance theory.

<!-- image -->

1. What are the perceived affordances for and constraints against ELF use for intercultural communication in an international EMI university?
2. What kinds of engagements and agentive efforts have the participants made to actualize the perceived affordances for ELF communication?

## 4. METHOD

## 4.1. Context and participants

This study was conducted on the offshore campus of a Hong Kong university in mainland China, in which English is used as a medium of instruction and means of communication on campus. At the time of the data collection in the spring 2020 semester, 44.4% of the teaching staff (n = 282) were foreigners and 20.7% of them were from seven countries where English is spoken as the native language. The majority (81%) of students at this campus were Chinese, some of whom (8%) had studied in English-speaking countries for at least one year, and the rest were international students from various countries. To elicit local Chinese students ' perceptions of using ELF for intercultural communication, 15 undergraduates (six males and nine females) from English, business, psychology, and science majors participated in the study on a voluntary basis. All participants self-reported as proficient speakers of English and Chinese. This was corroborated by their admission to the university, which required passing an English oral exam in addition to a national college entrance exam. The students had also used English as a medium of academic studies for two to four years.

## 4.2. Data collection and analysis

The qualitative data comprised two semi-structured interviews with each participant. Interview questions were developed to address the main topics of the study and included the participants ' perceptions and experiences of using ELF for intercultural communication, their experiences of using ELF for academic purposes, their efforts and investment in ELF use, and their intentions to develop their ELF skills. The interviews, which lasted approximately 40 minutes to one hour, were mainly conducted in Chinese with the sporadic use of English, and audio-recorded with the participants ' consent. The recordings were then transcribed and translated into English for data analysis.

The authors coded the interview data to identify emerging themes based on the theoretical framework of affordances and constraints that are modeled in Fig. 1 and in the literature review on ELF communication. Data segments relevant to opportunities for language learning and ELF use for academic or communication purposes were coded as affordances. Meanwhile, segments that indicate challenges to ELF use for these purposes were coded as constraints (Bower and Sturman, 2015; De Costa et al., 2020; Jenkins, 2014). Data segments relevant to the participants ' efforts toward and investment in ELF use were categorized into themes such as engagement and agency (Jiang and Zhang, 2019; Kordt, 2018; van Lier, 2004). Finally, the data representing participants ' perceptions of increased ELF use, enhanced confidence in ELF communications, and proficiency development were coded as affordance actualization. All participants are identified by pseudonyms to protect their privacy.

## 5. FINDINGS

Socioenvironmental affordances identified in the data are discussed below according to the research model (Fig. 1), with excerpts selected from the interview data to illustrate emerging themes in four domains of affordances: 1) existing affordances, 2) perceived affordances, 3) engagement and agentive effort, and 4) affordance actualization.

## 5.1. Existing affordances

Socioenvironmental affordances in the multilingual environments of this international university were initially identified based on the authors ' observations and descriptions of the school. Guided by previous research on linguistic affordances in multilingual communities (Aronin and Singleton, 2012; Henry, 2016; Kordt, 2018), ELF communications in academic settings (Baker, and Hüttner, 2017; De Costa et al., 2020; Jenkins, 2014; Sung, 2018), and EMI policy in ELF contexts (De Costa et al., 2020; Fang, 2018), the authors noted three language-related affordances: 1) multilingual affordances, 2) EMI affordances, and 3) ELT-by-NEST affordances.

Multilingual affordances were identified in several aspects of the social and physical environment of the university. First, as noted in the Methods section, 44.4% of the teaching staff were foreigners while 32.3% spoke Cantonese as their first language. Thus, students could hear different varieties of English and accents on campus. Second, students were required to take a foreign language in addition to English and Chinese as a minor for two years. This curriculum not only exposed these students to multilingual environments but also allowed them to become multilingual speakers. Finally, the student population included many international students and Chinese students who had studied in foreign countries, including several English-speaking countries. Such multilingual affordances could be exposed to promote students ' intercultural awareness in an academic affinity space (Baker, 2016; Baker and Hüttner, 2017). Baker and Hüttner (2017) argued that the linguistic aspect of multilingual environments in a local academic community could contribute to social cohesion.

In addition, EMI affordances were institutionally provided. For example, the linguistic landscape of the campus featured English as an official language in both physical and virtual spaces, including street signs, banners, school magazines, email correspondence, and the school website. Additionally, English was the mandated language of instruction and administration, although a bilingual language policy of English and Chinese was implemented exclusively for some administrative purposes. Therefore, all administrative positions were filled with bilingual speakers of the two languages. Such EMI-related affordances provided students with opportunities to use English for both academic and communicative purposes.

Finally, ELT-by-NEST affordances were provided as students were required to take ' professional English courses ' for academic writing and communication skills for four semesters to meet graduation requirements. The English Language Center (ELC), which oversaw both general and academic English education, offered these courses. A total of 41 native English speaking (NES) teachers were from seven English-speaking countries, among whom American (n = 18, 44%) and British (n = 12, 29%) teachers accounted for the largest proportion. At the same time, the university had an English tutor system to help students improve their communicative skills. Among the ten tutors, seven were from the US, two were from the UK, and one was from Ireland. The staffing in these courses and services made English as a native language (ENL) as the ostensible norm and NESs as norm providers for academic English, while international faculty members also taught content-oriented courses (Fang, 2018; Rose and Galloway, 2019). This level of ENL ideology is documented in detail in Section 5.2.

## 5.2. Perceived affordances

The first language-related affordance perceived by the participating students is the predominance of English as a primary means of communication on campus. At the research site, English was perceived as usable in both instructional and social situations. As reported in the following extracts, this affordance emerged in students ' perceptions of EMI and ELT-by-NEST affordances:

## Extract 1

I believe the environment of the school helps us use English. Due to the university ' s policy, English should be used in all classes for assignments, presentations, and exams. Therefore, I can learn and use English well on campus. (Fiona).

## Extract 2

Studying English with native teachers at the ELC helps improve my English skills. I use English when I have a conversation with my teachers and other students. So I have enough chances to communicate in English. (Mike).

As shown in extracts 3 and 4 below, some participants (n = 11) noted that intercultural communication was enabled by using ELF for academic communications among international faculty and students. They perceived such communication situations on campus as valuable social opportunities. Students reported their perceptions of EMI policy and multilingual affordances as opportunities to develop their intercultural communication capabilities:

## Extract 3

My university has teachers of various nationalities and with different English styles. It was sometimes difficult to adapt to different varieties of English, but I have gotten used to it over time. I can manage communication problems through diverse methods. (John).

## Extract 4

At high school, I only learned American English, but now I can listen to diverse kinds of English on campus. I still believe Hong Kong English is difficult to understand, but I know how to manage it in conversations. (Alice).

Students also mentioned that they accepted receiving instruction in different varieties of English from instructors with different L1 backgrounds, which they also perceived as providing opportunities to use English for intercultural communications. A total of 12 participants mentioned that they had acquired a pluralistic view of English based on their awareness of English variations, as seen in the following excerpt:

## Extract 5

Not all English speakers learn British or American English. We don ' t have to insist on their English because English is now used for communication all around the world. I believe people have their own culture and their own English. (Scott).

## 5.3. NES ideologies as constraints

The interviews indicated that some participants put a particularly high value on ENL in both academic and professional domains. This NES ideology suggests a significant influence of ELT-by-NEST on the participants ' perceptions of English, especially English, for academic purposes at the ELC. For example, five participants offered favorable comments on ENL, which implies that they considered native English as opposed to non-native varieties to be more authentic for academic purposes, as illustrated in the two extracts below:

## Extract 6

We have many foreign professors, but only native teachers teach English at ELC. They are mostly American or British, and most of the English textbooks were published in the US. I am studying American English because I think it is academically accepted. (Mary).

## Extract 7

If we want to be a professional English speaker, then we should use British or American English because it can project our professional image to our conversation partners. (Ria).

Students explained that those who spoke native-like English were perceived as ideal L2 English speakers for academic purposes, which was particularly important for one particular student because he planned to pursue a master ' s degree in an English-speaking country:

## Extract 8

I will go to the UK for a master ' s degree after graduation. [ . . . ] I think my English should be like that of a native speaker ' s to write academic papers. (Eric).

Although the students were exposed to different varieties of English from international instructors and students, many of them still maintained native-speaker-centric views based on the perceived legitimacy of ENL. They recurrently mentioned ELT-by-NEST affordances that were provided by the ELC, which supported their use of English for academic purposes. However, this also constrained their communicative use of English, particularly in interactions with NES teachers, as expressed in the following extract.

## Extract 9

When I talk with native English teachers at ELC, I feel like they are evaluating my English. At the same time, I keep paying attention to my pronunciation and grammar. Then, I get nervous about inadvertent mistakes, which I feel it prevents me from conversing naturally. (Mary).

Some also felt that they adhered to ENL standards even when talking with NNES teachers, although they did not believe they could ever reach the NES level. Some indicated that their goal of mastering ENL did not correspond to their actual identity. Thus, their fixation on NES norms exacerbated low confidence in their English usage, especially in the academic domain:

## Extract 10

Because I learn academic writing from native teachers at ELC, I try to speak like native speakers even when I talk with non-native teachers. Of course, I know I can ' t do that 100% -so I don ' t feel it ' s me sometimes. I don ' t feel much confidence in my English. (Irene).

## 5.4. Engagement and agency in ELF communication

Guided by affordance theory in L2 learning (Bernhard et al., 2013; Jiang and Zhang, 2019; Stoffregen, 2003; Suh et al., 2017; van Lier, 2004), we identified participants ' engagement and agency in ELF communication in their responses concerning the ways that they connected perceived affordances to actual actions (see Fig. 1). They were willing to invest efforts in realizing the potential of perceived affordances at the university, such as facilitation of English-medium and intercultural communications to improve their pragmatic skills (Baker, 2016; Canagarajah, 2007; Rose and Galloway, 2019). They identified two types of engagement as worthy of effort: 1) ELF communications, and 2) ENL practices.

First, some participants ' responses revealed their motivation and practices regarding intercultural communication on campus (Baker and Fang, 2021; Rose and Galloway, 2019; Sung, 2013). Their initiative in seeking communications with foreign teachers and international students reflected their volition and their agency in boosting perceived affordances into the actual acquisition of English in multilingual settings (Aronin and Singleton, 2012; Jiang and Zhang, 2019;

Sung, 2020b). For example, as demonstrated in the following excerpts, some students were strongly motivated to engage in intercultural communications because of their positive experiences of using English on campus. They also believed that EMI practices and the cultural diversity of international instructors and students gave them opportunities to invest in practicing ELF for academic purposes:

## Extract 11

I think the purpose of learning English is to communicate with foreigners. I would use different communication skills to deliver my thoughts well. [ . . . ] To practice it, I try to have conversations with foreign professors and classmates as many times as I can. (Scott).

## Extract 12

As an English speaker, I think communication itself is more important than adhering to standard forms. [ . . . ] According to the school policy, we must use English to do all tasks, such as assignments, discussions, presentations, and conferences. I always try my best to improve my English conversation skills to share my ideas with foreign teachers and other students. (John).

In the extract below, one student explained that her interactions with foreign teachers and students -both inside and outside the classroom -grew her confidence in using English for intercultural communication. She found that such positive experiences facilitated a positive attitude, engagement, and agentive efforts to focus on pragmatic strategies in her communication practices:

## Extract 13

I took courses from teachers of different nationalities. [ . . . ] Each teacher had different English styles, and these experiences gave me confidence in my communication skills . . . Additionally, I always try to talk with foreign students in and outside the classroom. So I will spend more time on this kind of communication practice to improve my communication skills rather than only studying at my desk. (Hilary).

In addition, nine participants showed strong motivation and efforts to engage in intercultural communications, particularly to better prepare themselves for pursuing a master ' s degree program in English-speaking countries. They would exchange cultural information with different international students and teachers to become global citizens who can work in transnational spaces, as one student explained:

## Extract 14

I attempt to communicate and interact with foreigners in English. I believe using English for intercultural communication is a good way to exchange cultural information with them. I think this kind of exercise will prepare me to be successful in my master ' s degree program in the UK or Australia. [ . . . ] Then, I ' d like to work for an international company in any place in the world. (Chris).

Overall, the above analysis suggests that the participants ' motivation and agentive efforts in seeking intercultural communications within their academic communities were based on their perceptions of the language-related affordances on campus, i.e., their experiences using ELF in multilingual EMI environments provided a basis for continuing their motivation, efforts, and engagement in intercultural communication practices.

On the other hand, some participants continued to take ENL as the norm in learning English as a foreign language and regarded NES teachers as ideal English-speaking models. Regarding perceived ELT-by-NEST affordances, one student reported that her motivation and efforts to reduce her psychological distance from NESs in her pursuit of ENL:

## Extract 15

I wish I could speak English like native speakers. I feel my English has greatlyimproved because I have learned English at the ELC. [ . . . ] I think I can reduce the psychological distance between me and native speakers when I speak English like them. (Mary).

Interestingly, participants who pursued an affiliation with NES norms expressed their motivation to integrate into the cultures of English-speaking countries to fulfill their goals of pursuing graduate degrees. Below, one student -envisioning his experience as a foreign student in an English-speaking country -explains that he hopes to integrate and identify with English speakers by acquiring a native-like accent and form:

## Extract 16

I believe language reflects culture. If I speak English like an American, then I ' ll feel assimilated into American society while pursuing my master ' s degree there . . . because American English is their language. Therefore, I ' m now practicing American English by imitating American English pronunciation and styles. (Eric).

## 5.5. Actualization of perceived ELF affordances

According to previous studies that employ affordance theory, having motivation and exerting human agency through effort and engagement may help one develop perceived affordances into actual actions or events (Bernhard et al., 2013; Jiang and Zhang, 2019; Stoffregen, 2003; Suh et al., 2017). This final node of the attitude-engagement-behavior model, namely, affordance actualization, was found in the participants ' reports of their agentive engagement in the ELF communication opportunities afforded by the EMI international university (Baker and Hüttner, 2017; De Costa et al., 2020; Sung, 2020b; Zhang, 2018). All but one of the participants specifically reported that their English proficiency had developed to a level at which they could successfully engage in the academic activities available in the university. In the extract below, one student explains how student-directed activities that are afforded by the school enhanced her communication skills:

## Extract 17

Studying at the international university has helped me a lot to advance in English communication skills because I always use English to do all activities at school, like group work, discussions, and presentations. When I was in my first year, I still had difficulties in expressing my ideas and understanding foreign accents. Now my English communication skills are adequate to share my ideas with foreign teachers and classmates. (Edith).

Some participants mentioned that their perceived advancement in English proficiency was based on accommodation strategies in dealing with difficulties in conversations with foreign teachers and students. For example, one student described how his engagement in both academic and social activities at an international and multilingual university over the past three years had contributed to the development of his ELF communication skills:

## Extract 18

Taking courses from foreign teachers has prepared me to cope with some problems in intercultural communication with foreigners. For example, I learned how to explain my ideas using alternative English words. I send them an email to describe my situation in more detail, and it usually works well. [ . . . ] I also learned how to adjust my English accent and styles in conversations with foreigners. (John).

Several students felt an increased level of self-confidence in ELF use as a result of their academic pathways in the international university. Their perceptions of such a positive outcome in an affective aspect were based on their experiences of successful interaction with instructors and students from different language backgrounds, as one student mentioned below:

## Extract 19

I have tried to have enough conversations with those [foreign] teachers and students in classroom activities because I believe it will help me find a good job in global companies. The communication skills I have obtained from this must also be useful in working for those companies. (Wilson).

Regarding the pursuit of NES norms, some students attributed their English language development to their academic experiences with NES teachers at the English Language Center. In the following extract, one student shared that she had particularly noticed an improvement in her writing skills thanks to academic composition courses at the ELC. Being able to apply a Western style to her writing assignments gave her confidence in her academic English capability.

## Extract 20

I think my English has greatly improved while studying at the ELC. I learned a lot about academic writing because native English teachers taught an American or British writing style. I feel my English is good when I can use that style in my assignments. (Irene).

However, many of the students felt that it was necessary to escape NES ideology, particularly in intercultural communication situations. One reason given was that it caused an excessive obsession with forms and accents that are consistent with ENL. In the following interview extract, Scott describes how monitoring whether his English conformed to ENL standards resulted in frequent pauses in conversations not only with NES teachers but also with NNES teachers, which he perceived to have a negative effect on his communications with them:

## Extract 21

I don ' t believe that it is good to follow American English in all situations because it frequently interferes with natural conversation. I find myself pausing in my speech while talking with native or foreign teachers. I think it ' s because I am very conscious of grammar and pronunciation when I try to imitate American English. (Scott).

## 6. DISCUSSION

Drawing on affordance theory (Bernhard, et al., 2013; Gibson, 1986; Jiang and Zhang, 2019; Stoffregen, 2003) and the ELF perspective of EMI (Baker and Hüttner, 2017; De Costa et al., 2020; Jenkins, 2015; Sung, 2020b), this study explored how the social environments of an EMI international university support L2 students ' use of ELF for intercultural communications in multilingual contexts. An analysis of students ' interview data revealed existing affordances, perceived affordances, affordance engagement and agency, and affordance actualization regarding ELF communication in transnational university contexts.

Concerning the first research question, participants reported that they perceived three salient affordances for the use of English in intercultural communications in their international universities: 1) EMI, 2) multilingualism, and 3) ELT-by- NES teachers. As posited by affordance theory (Gibson, 1986; Stoffregen, 2003), such language-related social environments reportedly provide students with opportunities to use ELF in academic settings. It is important to note that the affordance for English use generated by EMI policy does not alone support the internationalization of higher education (Jenkins, 2014; Jiang and Zhang, 2019). Instead, as Baker (2016) and Baker and Hüttner (2017) have argued, intercultural communication affordances in the multilingual environment provided by the international university are equally significant as the foundation for cultivating students ' international awareness and identification. This study confirms the importance of international faculty and students in creating multicultural environments for the internationalization of higher education institutions (Baker, 2016; Fang, 2018; Jenkins, 2014), as exemplified by interview data showing that the perceived multilingual affordances functioned to enhance the participants ' awareness and acceptance of different varieties of English. Such multilingual environments on campus can allow L2 students to engage in ELF use for authentic interactions with lingua-culturally diverse students and faculty (Aronin and Singleton, 2012; Baker and Hüttner, 2017; De Costa et al., 2020; Henry, 2016).

The second research question concerned how participants ' agency, with their engagement and effort, contributed to the actualization of affordances for ELF use. First, in line with affordance theory, which connects an environmental affordance to its actualization (Bernhard et al., 2013; Stoffregen, 2003; Suh et al., 2017), this study suggests that motivation for intercultural interactions on multilingual campuses triggers the use of ELF for intercultural communications (Baker and Hüttner, 2017; Evans and Morrison, 2011). Two findings of this study are relevant to this motivation: 1) the effect of positive communication experiences on motivation for ELF use (Evans and Morrison, 2011; Reynolds and Yu, 2018); and 2) the goal of becoming a global citizen in transnational contexts as a source of academic motivation on a multilingual campus (Baker and Fang, 2021; Sung, 2013, 2020a). Baker (2016) argued for the benefits of motivational opportunities provided by the international university in developing intercultural communication awareness among international students. Because the international university may be presumed to provide a multilingual setting for intercultural interactions, students ' agency in engaging in ELF communications should be considered in student-centered EMI policies and practices (Evans and Morrison, 2011; Reynolds and Yu, 2018). In fact, L2 learners ' motivation is highly correlated with their initiative to use English for in-class and out-of-class activities (Jiang and Zhang, 2019; Sung, 2018).

This study also suggests that participants ' engagement and agency in ELF communication practices were immediate factors in their intentions to use ELF, as Bernhard et al. (2013) and Suh et al. (2017) argued in their discussion of affordance actualization. The findings of the present study showed that students invested their efforts and exerted their agency in actualizing perceived affordances to improve their pragmatic skills using ELF on campus. Such willingness to use ELF as a communication tool was based on the participants ' positive past experiences and the aforementioned motivation to engage in intercultural communication. Sung (2013, 2020b) mentioned that students ' successful investments in L2 practices in intercultural contexts are partially based on their institutional experiences of cultural exchanges. Furthermore, Jiang and Zhang (2019) reported that L2 students ' strategic use of agency manifested in student-centered academic activities rather than teacher-centered instruction as those activities facilitated their L2 motivation and volition. Thus, to facilitate L2 learners ' autonomous engagement in ELF communications, it is necessary for higher education institutions to offer lingua-culturally diverse environments as well as student-centered activities to encourage them to voluntarily invest in authentic interactions in multilingual contexts (Evans and Morrison, 2011; Reynolds and Yu, 2018; Sung, 2020a).

In addition, in this study, participants ' perceived development of ELF communication skills and confidence in ELF use were found to be important aspects of actualizing ELF-related affordances (Baker and Hüttner, 2017; Jenkins, 2014; Rose and Galloway, 2019; Sung, 2018). De Costa (2012) noted that L2 students ' ELF use in the international context could enhance their pragmatic skills in utilizing the linguistic resources they derive from both ELF constructs and ENL for intercultural communication. Galloway and Rose (2018) argued that raising L2 students ' confidence as legitimate users of English based on their enhanced awareness of variations of English should be a target of ELT in a global context. Other publications also emphasized the significance of communicative skills and negotiation strategies in intercultural communications rather than conformity to a single variety of English (Baker, 2016; Baker and Fang, 2021; Canagarajah, 2007; House, 2003). The present study supported the findings of these studies by showing that L2 learners identified the perceived development of their ELF pragmatic skills in intercultural communications and increased confidence in ELF use as benefits of EMI education in the multilingual university.

Finally, compulsive conformity to ENL forms and accents may constrain ELF use in intercultural communications. Some participants also displayed NES ideology in their L2 beliefs, motivation, and practices regarding English for academic purposes. They pointed out that their NES ideologies mainly originated from the ELT system of the school, in which the English Language Center, where all English teachers were NESs, set ENL norms for academic writing. However, scholars who hold a pluralistic perspective on English view the blind pursuit of NES ideology as a hindrance to successful communication with NNESs from diverse lingua-cultural backgrounds as well as with NESs (De Costa, 2012; Jenkins, 2014; Galloway and Rose, 2018; Kaypak and Ortaçtepe, 2014; Suzuki, 2011). This argument was con- firmed by another finding of this study; participants perceived the need to depart from NES ideology, as they reported frequent pauses in their conversations with foreign teachers while attempting to produce native-like forms and sounds. This finding calls for a shift in the framework of ELT from the ENL-based normative perspective to the ELF-based pluralistic perspective, particularly in multilingual contexts (Canagarajah, 2007; Rose and Galloway, 2019; Suzuki, 2011). In regard to this issue, Rose and Galloway (2019) suggested that the ELT curriculum in the international context needs to transition from the dichotomization of NES and NNES to the integration of all competent English users, as the former ' adheres to strict native norms, ' whereas the latter ' offers an opportunity for learner agency, enabling learners to draw on their languages to suit the purposes of communication ' (p. 27).

## 7. CONCLUSION

This exploratory study reported L2 students ' perceptions of four stages of socioenvironmental affordances relevant to ELF use for intercultural communication in an EMI international university: 1) affordance existence, 2) affordance perception, 3) affordance engagement and agency, and 4) affordance actualization. The findings suggest that students ' perceptions of available affordances are a prerequisite to their exercising agency in the forms of motivation, engagement, and efforts to mediate the actualization of perceived affordances, which are, in this case, the perceived development of ELF communication skills and confidence in ELF use. On the other hand, NES ideology, primarily promoted by the ELT-by-NEST affordance, may constrain ELF communication, especially when students are highly obsessed with ENL practices. Hence, based on the findings of this study, the authors suggest the following model in Fig. 2. Note that this model provides only a descriptive explanation of the findings based on the research framework in Fig. 1 and does not imply causal relationships among the four constructs.

The findings support a socioenvironmental approach to ELT at the macro level, which is consistent for an ecological approach to EMI practices in the transnational context by De Costa et al. (2020). First, there is a need for institutional efforts to create a culturally inclusive campus for the development of students ' intercultural competence (Baker, 2016; Baker and Fang, 2021; Fang, 2018). The EMI policy cannot solely bolster the credentials of the international university in an increasingly globalized academic community; rather, it is necessary for higher education institutions to offer sufficient opportunities for culturally diverse students to engage in ELF communication practices on campus both formally and informally (Baker, 2016; Kordt, 2018; Reynolds and Yu, 2018). Second, to actualize socioenvironmental affordances, international EMI universities should provide diverse student-centered academic activities to engage their students in intercultural communication practices, including out-of-class as well as in-class communication activities (Jiang and Zhang, 2019; Sung, 2018, 2020b; Reynolds and Yu, 2018). Finally, given that an obsession with ENL norms was found to impede successful intercultural communication, the authors suggest that English language centers at higher education institutions hire English instructors from diverse lingua-cultural backgrounds (Kaypak and Ortaçtepe, 2014; Rose and Galloway, 2019; Suzuki, 2011). Scholars have emphasized the importance of a pluralistic view of English and actual experiences with intercultural communications in academic settings in addition to passive exposure to different varieties of English (Sung, 2018, 2020a). Thus, it is necessary to incorporate the ELF communication perspective into the curriculum of English language programs to promote fluid norms for academic English, as already exemplified by some Asian universities whose English Language Centers pursue global English, English as an international language, or ELF (De Costa et al., 2020; Jenkins, 2014; Suzuki, 2011, Zhang, 2018; Zhou et al., 2021) rather than native speaker norms.

Fig. 2. Proposed model: affordances of international universities regarding ELF use.

<!-- image -->

One limitation of this study needs to be acknowledged. Because this study was conducted at a single university, its findings may be relevant but cannot be generalized to other cases. Thus, as suggested by Baker and Hüttner (2017), future studies should be conducted at multiple sites to find commonalities and differences among different contexts. The authors specifically suggest comparing international universities that execute EMI policies in multilingual environments with regional universities that adopt local languages as their medium of instruction.

## DECLARATION OF COMPETING INTEREST

The authors declare that they have no known competing financial interests or personal relationships that could have appeared to influence the work reported in this paper.

## ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS

This work was supported by the Hankuk University of Foreign Studies Research Fund.

## References

- Aronin, L., Singleton, D., 2012. Affordances theory in multilingualism studies. Stud. Second Language Learn. Teaching 2 (3), 311 -331.
- [Baker, W., 2016. English as an academic lingua franca and intercultural awareness: Student mobility in the transcultural university. Language Intercultural Commun. 16 (3), 437 -451.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0024-3841(22)00088-2/h0010)
- Baker, W., Fang, F., 2021. ' So maybe I ' m a global citizen ' : Developing intercultural citizenship in English medium education. Language, Culture Curricul. 34 (1), 1 -17. https://doi.org/10.1080/07908318.2020.1748045.
- Baker, W., Hüttner, J., 2017. English and more: A multisite study of roles and conceptualisations of language in English medium multilingual universities from Europe to Asia. J. Multilingual Multicultural Develop. 38 (6), 501 -516. https://doi.org/10.1080/ 01434632.2016.1207183.
- [Bandura, A., 2001. Social cognitive theory: An agentic perspective. Annu. Rev. Psychol. 52 (1), 1 -26.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0024-3841(22)00088-2/h0025)
- Bernhard, E., Recker, J., Burton-Jones, A., 2013. Understanding the actualization of affordances: A study in the process modeling context. In: International Conference on Information Systems (ICIS 2013), 1 -11. Retrieved from https://aisel.aisnet.org/icis2013/ proceedings/ResearchInProgress/41/.
- Bower, M., Sturman, D., 2015. What are the educational affordances of wearable technologies? Comput. Educ. 88, 343 -353. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.compedu.2015.07.013.
- Canagarajah, S., 2007. Lingua franca English, multilingual and language communities, acquisition. Modern Language J. 91, 923 -939.
- De Costa, P.I., 2012. Constructing SLA differently: The value of ELF and language ideology in an ASEAN case study. Int. J. Appl. Linguist. 22 (2), 205 -224. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1473-4192.2012.00309.x.
- De Costa, Green-Eneix, Li, 2020. Problematizing EMI language policy in a transnational world. English Today. https://doi.org/ 10.1017/S026607842000005X.
- Evans, S., Morrison, B., 2011. The student experience of English-medium higher education in Hong Kong. Language Educ. 25 (2), 147 -162.
- [Fang, F., 2018. Review of English as a medium of instruction in Chinese universities today: Current trends and future directions. English Today 34 (1), 32 -37.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0024-3841(22)00088-2/h0060)
- Galloway, N., Rose, H., 2018. Incorporating Global Englishes into the ELT classroom. ELT J. 72 (1), 3 -14. https://doi.org/10.1093/ elt/ccx010.
- [Gibson, J.J., 1986. The ecological approach to visual perception. Lawrence Erlbaum, Hillsdale, NJ.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0024-3841(22)00088-2/h0070)
- [Henry, A., 2016. Enablements and constraints: Inventorying affordances associated with lingua franca English. Int. J. Bilingual Educ. Bilingual. 19 (5), 488 -510.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0024-3841(22)00088-2/h0075)
- [House, J., 2003. English as a lingua franca: A threat to multilingualism? J. Sociolinguistics 7 (4), 556 -578.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0024-3841(22)00088-2/h0080)
- [Jenkins, J., 2014. English as a lingua franca in the international university: The politics of academic English language policy. Routledge, London.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0024-3841(22)00088-2/h0085)
- [Jenkins, J., 2015. Repositioning English and multilingualism in English as a Lingua Franca. Englishes Practice 2 (3), 49 -85.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0024-3841(22)00088-2/h0090)

- [Jiang, A.L., Zhang, L.J., 2019. Chinese students ' perceptions of English learning affordances and their agency in an Englishmedium instruction classroom context. Language Educ. 33 (4), 322 -339.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0024-3841(22)00088-2/h0095)
- Kaypak, E., Ortaçtepe, D., 2014. Language learner beliefs and study abroad: A study on English as a lingua franca (ELF). System 42, 355 -367.

[Kordt, B., 2018. Affordance theory and multiple language learning and teaching. Int. J. Multilingual. 15 (2), 135 -148.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0024-3841(22)00088-2/h0105)

- Kuteeva, M., 2019. Revisiting the ' E ' in EMI: Students ' perceptions of standard English, lingua franca and translingual practices. Int. J. Bilingual Educ. Bilingual. 23 (3), 287 -300. https://doi.org/10.1080/13670050.2019.1637395.

Lee, S., Kim, A., 2020. Experiences and practices of English as a lingua franca communication in the international university: An integrative view of student voices. Appl. Linguist. Rev.. https://doi.org/10.1515/applirev-2020-0072.

[Macaro, E., 2018. English medium instruction: Content and language in policy and practice. Oxford University Press, Oxford.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0024-3841(22)00088-2/h0120)

- Macaro, E., Curle, S., Pun, J., An, J., Dearden, J., 2018. A systematic review of English medium instruction in higher education. Language Teaching 51 (1), 36 -76. https://doi.org/10.1017/S0261444817000350.
- [Reynolds, B.L., Yu, M.H., 2018. Addressing the language needs of administrative staff in Taiwan ' s internationalised higher education: call for an English as a lingua franca curriculum to increase communicative competence and willingness to communicate. Language Educ. 32 (2), 147 -166.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0024-3841(22)00088-2/h0135)
- [Rose, H., Galloway, N., 2019. Global Englishes for language teaching. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0024-3841(22)00088-2/h0140)
- [Stoffregen, T.A., 2003. Affordances as properties of the animal-environment system. Ecol. Psychol. 15 (2), 115 -134.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0024-3841(22)00088-2/h0145)
- [Suh, A., Cheung, C.M.K., Ahuja, M., Wagner, C., 2017. Gamification in the workplace: The central role of the aesthetic experience. J. Manage. Informat. Syst. 34 (1), 268 -305.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0024-3841(22)00088-2/h0150)
- [Sung, C.C.M., 2013. Learning English as an L2 in the global context: Changing English, changing motivation. Changing English: Stud. Culture Educ. 20 (4), 377 -387.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0024-3841(22)00088-2/h0155)
- [Sung, C.C.M., 2018. Out-of-class communication and awareness of English as a Lingua Franca. ELT J. 72 (1), 15 -25.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0024-3841(22)00088-2/h0160)
- [Sung, C.C.M., 2020a. Exploring language identities in English as a lingua franca communication: Experiences of bilingual university students in Hong Kong. Int. J. Bilingual Educ. Bilingual. 23 (2), 184 -197.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0024-3841(22)00088-2/h0165)
- Sung, C.C.M., 2020b. Investing in English-mediated practices in the EMI university: The case of cross-border mainland Chinese students in Hong Kong. Lingua 243, 102919. https://doi.org/10.1016/j.lingua.2020.102919.
- [Suzuki, A., 2011. Introducing diversity of English into ELT: Student teachers ' responses. ELT J. 65 (2), 145 -153.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0024-3841(22)00088-2/h0175)
- [van Lier, L., 2004. The ecology and semiotics of language learning: A sociocultural perspective. Kluwer Academic Publishers.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0024-3841(22)00088-2/h0180)
- [van Lier, L., 2008. Ecological-semiotic perspectives on educational linguistics. In: Spolsky, B., Hult, F.M. (Eds.), The Handbook of Educational Linguistics. John Wiley &amp; Sons, pp. 596 -605.](http://refhub.elsevier.com/S0024-3841(22)00088-2/h0185)
- Yang, R., 2014. China ' s strategy for the internationalization of higher education: An overview. Front. Educ. China 9 (2), 151 -162. https://doi.org/10.3868/s110-003-014-0014-x.
- Zhang, Z., 2018. English-medium instruction policies in China: Internationalisation of higher education. J. Multilingual Multicultural Develop. 39 (6), 542 -555. https://doi.org/10.1080/01434632.2017.1404070.
- Zhou, S., McKinley, J., Rose, H., Xu, X., 2021. English medium higher education in China: Challenges and ELT support. ELT J.. https://doi.org/10.1093/elt/ccab082.